1.What is an Operating System? Explain why Linux is one of the most preferred operating systems for DevOps Engineers.

Ans:Operating system is a bridge between the physical machine and the Applications we run. Linux is the most preffered operating system in DevOps because 
    it is the open source operating system.
    we can run the scripts in Linux to automate the tasks easily.
    Kubernetes, dockers and public cloud (AS, GCP, Azure) are runs on the Linux operating system.
    We can use the Linux machines over the year without any reboot it required.

2.Explain the difference between the Linux Kernel and the Shell with suitable examples.

Ans:Kernel: Kernel is nothing but an operating system, it is a core of the os. It delas with the physical hardware and the system resources like CPU, Memory etc..

    Shell: Shell provides an interface between the kernel and user. It is nothing but a Command line interface to execute the command on the Linux Operating system to handle file, directories, user permissions, services etc..

   
3.Write the Linux commands to perform the following tasks:
Ans:1. Create a directory named CareerByteCode:  mkdir CareerByteCode
    2. Create three files inside the directory:  touch file1: touch file2: touch file3
    3. Display all files with detailed information: lshrt or ll
    4. Rename one file: mv file1 nandu
    5. Remove one file: rm file2

4.Explain the purpose of the following Linux commands with one example each:

Ans:1.mkdir: This Linux command is used to create the new directory. 
       eg: mkdir nandini
       The above command will create a new directoy named nandini

    2.rmdir: This Linux command is used to remove the existing directory.
       eg: rmdir nandini
       The above cammand will remove the existing directory named nandini.

    3.touch: This Linux command is used to create a new file.
       eg: touch nandini
       The above command will create new file named nandini

    4.cp: this Linux commad is ued to copy the file from one location to other
        eg: cp 

    5.mv: This Linux command is used to move the file from one path to other and this command also used to rename the file too.
          eg: mv nandu /etc/documents/nandini----- This command moves the file nanu to the folder nandini
          eg: mv nandu nandini-----This command canges he name of the file from nandu to nandini 
          eg: mv nandu1 nandu2 /etc/documents/nandini----- This command moves the multiple files nandu1,nadnu2 ot the nandini folder

5.Write Linux commands to

Ans: 1. Display the current date and time: date  
     2.Show the current logged-in user:  whoami
     3.Print the current working directory: pwd
     4.Create a directory named backup: mkdir backup
     5.Move a file into the backup directory: mv nandu /backup/

6.Research any three Linux commands that help you work with files and directories. Explain their purpose with examples.

1.mkdir: This Linux command is used to create the new directory. 
       eg: mkdir nandini
       The above command will create a new directoy named nandini

    2.rmdir: This Linux command is used to remove the existing directory.
       eg: rmdir nandini
       The above cammand will remove the existing directory named nandini.

    3.touch: This Linux command is used to create a new file.
       eg: touch nandini
       The above command will create new file named nandini

    4. rm: This Linux command is used to remove the existing file.
        eg: rm nandini
        The above command will remove the file named nandini

7.Explain the purpose of the following Linux directories:

Ans:/opt: This directory is reserved to tore the third party or user installed application
    /tmp: This directory stores temporary files that are generated by the running applications and processes
    /boot: This directory stores the required file to start the linux operating system
    /home: It's a dedicate space for the each user. User can store their personal and dedicated files and applications
    /var: This directory is used to store the files which are dynamic in size and content. This will collect the data from the runnings applications like collects logs of the application while it running.

8.Explain the difference between Read, Write, and Execute permissions. Give one example for each permission.

Ans: Read: Has only the view permission for the respective file
     Write: Can edit the file
     Execute: Can run the file

9.Suppose you cannot access a directory because of permission issues. Which Linux commands would you use to identify and resolve the problem?

Ans:"chmod" is the Linux command used to edit the permissions of the respective file. We can give the required the permissions to the file and can access it.

10.Your terminal screen contains a long list of previously executed commands. Which command would you use to view them? How can this help during troubleshooting

Ans:  "less" command is used to print the content of the file which best fit to the current screen length 
       And we mostly use this command during the troubleshooting process to view the content of the file in the current screen length and we can use down arrow button on the keyboard to display the content further till the end.

11.What is a Git Repository? Explain the difference between a Local Repository and a Remote Repository.

Ans:  Git reposiroty is a digital storage space where we can store the data/code in a files/folders. It allows us to do version control as well.
      Local repository: It's nothing but our current working location such as our physical computer
      Remote Repository: Is a destination repository hosted on a virtual env such as git

12.Write the Git commands to perform the following:

Ans: Initialize a Git repository----git init 
     Add multiple files------------git add .
     Commit the changes------------git commit -m "<commit message>"
     View the commit history-------git log --oneline
     Push the changes to GitHub----git push

13.Research any three Git commands that help developers manage their work more efficiently. Explain their purpose with examples.
Ans:  1.The first issue we face in git is authentication issue. So, do authenticate the git while installing the git by using all the installation commands.
      2.The second issue we face is during te merge. to resolve the issue do add commit message properly, puah the changes into remote repository byusing the commands 
      3.git push, git commit -m "messsage"
      Checck whether all the files are staged properly or not by using the history command
      git log --graph --oneline --all

14.Explain the purpose of the following GitHub features:

Ans:Repository----Digital psace to store the code/data in files/folders
    README------- It's a text document that gives the compete discription of the project
    Branch------- Separete worksace to edit the existing files or to create new one without affecting the mainn project
    Commit ------ Simply to save the changes made as a sanpshot at a point of time
    Pull Request--- Approval for the changes made to push into the remote repository. Finaly they would get released to the live environment

15. Why is it considered a good practice to create a separate branch before making changes to a project? Explain in your own words.
Ans:  We use to create a separate branch and used to edit the files and finally push in to the main branch because
      It allows multiple users can work on the same repository/project simultaneausly
      Rescue the code in mail project from accidental pushes


